AI Gateway - K&C (#1993)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys.mdx

---
title: AI Gateway API Keys
description: Authenticate requests to your AI Gateway without needing provider accounts.
---

AI Gateway API Keys are the simplest way to start using the AI Gateway. Create a key, add it to your SDK configuration, and start making requests—ngrok handles the provider accounts and API keys for OpenAI and Anthropic on your behalf.

<Note>
Need providers beyond OpenAI and Anthropic, or already have your own provider accounts? See [Bring Your Own Keys](/ai-gateway/bring-your-own-keys/overview).
</Note>

## Getting started

1. [Create an AI Gateway](/ai-gateway/quickstart) if you haven't already
2. [Purchase credits](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/ai-gateways/credit/add)—AI Gateway API Keys require [prepaid credits](/ai-gateway/concepts/credits) to work
3. [Create an API key](#creating-keys) from your gateway's **API Keys** tab in the dashboard
4. Use the key in your SDK:

```python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(
    base_url="https://your-ai-gateway.ngrok.app/v1",
    api_key="ng-xxxxx-g1-xxxxx"  # Your AI Gateway API Key
)

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-4o",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
)
```

> No OpenAI account, no provider API key, no Traffic Policy configuration. Your AI Gateway API Key handles authentication with the provider automatically.

Reviewer: nit: this kind of reads like marketing copy

```suggestion
Your AI Gateway API key handles authentication with the provider automatically—you don't need an OpenAI account, a provider API key, or any Traffic Policy configuration. 
```

Author: Rejecting this one, I much prefer the former.
